README.md, before:

# Telegram iOS Source Code Compilation Guide

We welcome all developers to use our API and source code to create applications on our platform.
There are several things we require from **all developers** for the moment.

# Creating your Telegram Application

1. [**Obtain your own api_id**](https://core.telegram.org/api/obtaining_api_id) for your application.
2. Please **do not** use the name Telegram for your app — or make sure your users understand that it is unofficial.
3. Kindly **do not** use our standard logo (white paper plane in a blue circle) as your app's logo.
3. Please study our [**security guidelines**](https://core.telegram.org/mtproto/security_guidelines) and take good care of your users' data and privacy.
4. Please remember to publish **your** code too in order to comply with the licences.

# Quick Compilation Guide

## Get the Code

```
git clone --recursive -j8 https://github.com/AliLamari/Telegram-iOS.git
```

## Setup Xcode

Install Xcode (directly from https://developer.apple.com/download/applications or using the App Store).

## Adjust Configuration

1. Generate a random identifier:
```
openssl rand -hex 8
```
2. Create a new Xcode project. Use `Telegram` as the Product Name. Use `org.{identifier from step 1}` as the Organization Identifier.
3. Open `Keychain Access` and navigate to `Certificates`. Locate `Apple Development: your@email.address (XXXXXXXXXX)` and double tap the certificate. Under `Details`, locate `Organizational Unit`. This is the Team ID.
4. Edit `build-system/template_minimal_development_configuration.json`. Use data from the previous steps.

## Generate an Xcode project

```
python3 build-system/Make/Make.py \
    --cacheDir="$HOME/telegram-bazel-cache" \
    generateProject \
    --configurationPath=build-system/template_minimal_development_configuration.json \
    --xcodeManagedCodesigning
```

# Advanced Compilation Guide

## Xcode

1. Copy and edit `build-system/appstore-configuration.json`.
2. Copy `build-system/fake-codesigning`. Create and download provisioning profiles, using the `profiles` folder as a reference for the entitlements.
3. Generate an Xcode project:
```
python3 build-system/Make/Make.py \
    --cacheDir="$HOME/telegram-bazel-cache" \
    generateProject \
    --configurationPath=configuration_from_step_1.json \
    --codesigningInformationPath=directory_from_step_2
```

## IPA

1. Repeat the steps from the previous section. Use distribution provisioning profiles.
2. Run:
```
python3 build-system/Make/Make.py \
    --cacheDir="$HOME/telegram-bazel-cache" \
    build \
    --configurationPath=...see previous section... \
    --codesigningInformationPath=...see previous section... \
    --buildNumber=100001 \
    --configuration=release_arm64
```

# FAQ

## Xcode is stuck at "build-request.json not updated yet"

Occasionally, you might observe the following message in your build log:
```
"/Users/xxx/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/Telegram-xxx/Build/Intermediates.noindex/XCBuildData/xxx.xcbuilddata/build-request.json" not updated yet, waiting...
```

Should this occur, simply cancel the ongoing build and initiate a new one.

## Telegram_xcodeproj: no such package 

Following a system restart, the auto-generated Xcode project might encounter a build failure accompanied by this error:
```
ERROR: Skipping '@rules_xcodeproj_generated//generator/Telegram/Telegram_xcodeproj:Telegram_xcodeproj': no such package '@rules_xcodeproj_generated//generator/Telegram/Telegram_xcodeproj': BUILD file not found in directory 'generator/Telegram/Telegram_xcodeproj' of external repository @rules_xcodeproj_generated. Add a BUILD file to a directory to mark it as a package.
```

If you encounter this issue, re-run the project generation steps in the README.


# Tips

## Codesigning is not required for simulator-only builds

Add `--disableProvisioningProfiles`:
```
python3 build-system/Make/Make.py \
    --cacheDir="$HOME/telegram-bazel-cache" \
    generateProject \
    --configurationPath=path-to-configuration.json \
    --codesigningInformationPath=path-to-provisioning-data \
    --disableProvisioningProfiles
```

## Versions

Each release is built using a specific Xcode version (see `versions.json`). The helper script checks the versions of the installed software and reports an error if they don't match the ones specified in `versions.json`. It is possible to bypass these checks:

```
python3 build-system/Make/Make.py --overrideXcodeVersion build ... # Don't check the version of Xcode
```

Commit message:

Enhance README with Custom Liquid Glass details
Expanded README to include details on Custom Liquid Glass implementation and performance challenges.

README.md, after:

# Custom Liquid Glass Implementation
- Implemented pipeline for capturing backdrop -> rendering on to "glass" layer -> Metal shader processing (distortion, edge glow, etc.)
- Theoretically(according to API), it can run at as low iOS version as 9.0 (could not download less than 15.0 version of iOS)

Currently only TabBar Background and Slider has glass effect.
A lot of time took trying to make it more efficient, but seems like it is not achievable. Backdrop capturing seems like a major bottleneck in iOS.
In order to make it at least somehow efficient, used LoopObserver, that has as low as 5 FPS on static screen, but even one animated emoji will make it again goes to 60FPS(throttle).
But then issue with multiple elements on screen (like chat view):
- Tried to have one shared backdrop capturer, but then a complexity added as need to pass elements to hide and then to crop... + need to handle logic with elements positioning for drop-like effect (when 2 or more elements goes closer or futher). 
My personal thought is that it is waay to complex for feature that is not that essential + as I could not find way for it to be eficient enough
So, in the end, I implemented ios26 like glass and used it in TabBar background asa well as other one for slider knob.

Anyway, it's my first ever iOS project, so I wish that more experienced developers can find a way to make it work


# Telegram iOS Source Code Compilation Guide

We welcome all developers to use our API and source code to create applications on our platform.
There are several things we require from **all developers** for the moment.

# Creating your Telegram Application

1. [**Obtain your own api_id**](https://core.telegram.org/api/obtaining_api_id) for your application.
2. Please **do not** use the name Telegram for your app — or make sure your users understand that it is unofficial.
3. Kindly **do not** use our standard logo (white paper plane in a blue circle) as your app's logo.
3. Please study our [**security guidelines**](https://core.telegram.org/mtproto/security_guidelines) and take good care of your users' data and privacy.
4. Please remember to publish **your** code too in order to comply with the licences.

# Quick Compilation Guide

## Get the Code

```
git clone --recursive -j8 https://github.com/AliLamari/Telegram-iOS.git
```

## Setup Xcode

Install Xcode (directly from https://developer.apple.com/download/applications or using the App Store).

## Adjust Configuration

1. Generate a random identifier:
```
openssl rand -hex 8
```
2. Create a new Xcode project. Use `Telegram` as the Product Name. Use `org.{identifier from step 1}` as the Organization Identifier.
3. Open `Keychain Access` and navigate to `Certificates`. Locate `Apple Development: your@email.address (XXXXXXXXXX)` and double tap the certificate. Under `Details`, locate `Organizational Unit`. This is the Team ID.
4. Edit `build-system/template_minimal_development_configuration.json`. Use data from the previous steps.

## Generate an Xcode project

```
python3 build-system/Make/Make.py \
    --cacheDir="$HOME/telegram-bazel-cache" \
    generateProject \
    --configurationPath=build-system/template_minimal_development_configuration.json \
    --xcodeManagedCodesigning
```

# Advanced Compilation Guide

## Xcode

1. Copy and edit `build-system/appstore-configuration.json`.
2. Copy `build-system/fake-codesigning`. Create and download provisioning profiles, using the `profiles` folder as a reference for the entitlements.
3. Generate an Xcode project:
```
python3 build-system/Make/Make.py \
    --cacheDir="$HOME/telegram-bazel-cache" \
    generateProject \
    --configurationPath=configuration_from_step_1.json \
    --codesigningInformationPath=directory_from_step_2
```

## IPA

1. Repeat the steps from the previous section. Use distribution provisioning profiles.
2. Run:
```
python3 build-system/Make/Make.py \
    --cacheDir="$HOME/telegram-bazel-cache" \
    build \
    --configurationPath=...see previous section... \
    --codesigningInformationPath=...see previous section... \
    --buildNumber=100001 \
    --configuration=release_arm64
```

# FAQ

## Xcode is stuck at "build-request.json not updated yet"

Occasionally, you might observe the following message in your build log:
```
"/Users/xxx/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/Telegram-xxx/Build/Intermediates.noindex/XCBuildData/xxx.xcbuilddata/build-request.json" not updated yet, waiting...
```

Should this occur, simply cancel the ongoing build and initiate a new one.

## Telegram_xcodeproj: no such package 

Following a system restart, the auto-generated Xcode project might encounter a build failure accompanied by this error:
```
ERROR: Skipping '@rules_xcodeproj_generated//generator/Telegram/Telegram_xcodeproj:Telegram_xcodeproj': no such package '@rules_xcodeproj_generated//generator/Telegram/Telegram_xcodeproj': BUILD file not found in directory 'generator/Telegram/Telegram_xcodeproj' of external repository @rules_xcodeproj_generated. Add a BUILD file to a directory to mark it as a package.
```

If you encounter this issue, re-run the project generation steps in the README.


# Tips

## Codesigning is not required for simulator-only builds

Add `--disableProvisioningProfiles`:
```
python3 build-system/Make/Make.py \
    --cacheDir="$HOME/telegram-bazel-cache" \
    generateProject \
    --configurationPath=path-to-configuration.json \
    --codesigningInformationPath=path-to-provisioning-data \
    --disableProvisioningProfiles
```

## Versions

Each release is built using a specific Xcode version (see `versions.json`). The helper script checks the versions of the installed software and reports an error if they don't match the ones specified in `versions.json`. It is possible to bypass these checks:

```
python3 build-system/Make/Make.py --overrideXcodeVersion build ... # Don't check the version of Xcode
```
